---
title: Multi-factor authentication
---

An n^th^ factor of authentication is required to access a resource.

---

## The most common types of MFA use:

- A one-time verification code that is sent to a phone number or email address
- The answer to a security question, such as the first concert you attended or the place you were born
- A time-based, one-time password (TOTP) that is generated by an authenticator app, like [Authy](https://authy.com/) or [DuoMobile](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.duosecurity.duomobile&hl=en_US)
- A physical fob, like [Yubikey](https://www.yubico.com/), which can be plugged into your device
- Biometric information, such as a fingerprint or iris scan (not common).

## Some types of MFA are more secure than others:

- Two-factor authentication that relies on SMS is vulnerable to being compromised through a SIM swap attack, hackers persuade or bribe phone company employees to transfer your phone number to another SIM.
- Knowledge-based MFA tests like security questions are also more vulnerable to attacks. Your mother’s maiden name or the city in which you were born, for instance, are a matter of public record.

## Best MFA options:

- Hardware MFA options like Yubikey are the most secure, but currently few services support it.
- For the time being, the best method of MFA is an authenticator app. These apps work by generating a hash based on the time and a secret key, which only your phone and the website’s servers know. This hash is then shortened to a six-digit number for you to type in to a window following the username and password page at sign in.
